---
layout: post
title: "Managing your custom LaTeX files"
date: 2016-12-11
tags: [hobby, latex]
excerpt: "Store your often used files in a central location"
---

## Avoiding repetition
After any significant time using LaTeX you will probably end up with a large variety of commonly used packages. 

~~~
% -------------------MATH PACKAGES --------------------------------------
\usepackage[binary-units=true]{siunitx} % SI units
\usepackage{amssymb}  
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amsfonts}
\usepackage{amsthm}
\usepackage{mathtools}
\usepackage{microtype} % better fonts/apperance
\usepackage{bm} % boldface
~~~

You also might have a big list of macros that you reuse in multiple documents.

~~~
\newcommand{\linearize}[3]{\ensuremath{\left. \frac{\partial #1}{\partial #2} \right|_{#3} \delta #2}}
\newcommand{\norm}[1]{\ensuremath{\left\| #1 \right\|}}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\ensuremath{\left| #1 \right|}}
\newcommand{\Real}[1]{\ensuremath{\Re \left\{ #1 \right\}}}
~~~

This is one of the greatest benefits of using LaTeX, but it still requires that you ensure each new document has a copy of your packages and macros.
There a variety of ways one could include this code into a new document

1. Simply copy the code into the preamble
2. Copy the file into the working directory and use `\input` or `\include`

Both of these approaches run into trouble when you add new macros without explicitly ensuring you've updated the local copy. 
Instead here I'll describe another, much more robust solution

## Local `texmf` tree

Every TeX distribution will automatically search your local `~/texmf` directory.
In this directory you can store all of your commonly used files, and every document on your system will automatically have access to them. 
The paths are:

* Windows XP: `C:\Documents and Settings\<user name>\texmf\`
* Windows 7: `C:\Users\<user name>\texmf\`
* Linux: `~/texmf/`
* MacOS: `/Users/<user name>/Library/texmf/`

### Personal Style and Macro Files

You can define your own set of commonly used packages using a style file.
Simply create a file `my_packages.sty` in `~/texmf` and add the following as the first line

~~~
\ProvidesPackage{my_packages}
\usepackage{siunitx}
\usepackage{amsmath}
~~~

and in all of your documents you can then use `\usepackage{my_packages}`.
You can also add all of your custom macros to this file so they'll always be available and there is only a single place to maintain them, rather than spread all over you system.

This is also the ideal location to keep a `.bib` file if you're using a reference management system. 
Now all of your citations/references are in a central location and available to your system.

## [My approach](https://github.com/skulumani/texmf)

I store my often used packages and macros in my `texmf` tree. 
I've also saved this as a `git` repository so it's backed up and version controlled. 
In case a future change breaks an older document I can always return to a previous version.

In addition, `git` makes it very easy to keep track of these personal files across multiple computers.
I simply clone the repo and have all of my custom LaTeX macros and references on any new system. 


## More information

There's a standard structure to the `texmf` directory and you can read about it below. 
Also there's a link to my own setup, with my packages and master BibTeX library. 

* [My own `texmf` tree](https://github.com/skulumani/texmf)
* [Where do I place my own .sty files?](http://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/1137/where-do-i-place-my-own-sty-or-cls-files-to-make-them-available-to-all-my-te)
